Welcome back.
I want to spend a little bit more time on these constructor functions because they are a little bit
tricky.
There's a lot of magic happening here so let's make sure that we fully get this.
Let's play around with this functionality.
If I console the log here
this and see what this is and I run I see that this is the elf object that we're creating but there's
no properties on here because while we haven't added anything it just creates an empty object.
However if I bring this down here and I do console log I see that after we construct this elf and add
properties to it we have them accessible to us.
Now the interesting thing here is that if I do something like variable A equals five and I click Run
here it's not going to add this to our elf object with a constructor function.
The only way we can add properties to this object is to use this keyword.
All right.
And then we also talked about how constructor functions automatically create that prototype chain for
us.
So let's test that out if in here instead of Peter dot attack I'm going to do let's say Peter underscore
underscore proto let's see what I get I get ELF attack function let's comment this out for a second
just so we can see it without the prototype.
All right.
We see that we have ELF as our prototype.
So remember Frodo points to the prototype of elf.
So it points to elf dot prototype and Elf type prototype was created for us because of this new keyword.
So that when we finally add onto the prototype an item like attack well I now have protons pointing
to elf dot prototype which contains the attack method so if I do elf here dot prototype and I run this.
You see that.
That's the same thing.
We have the attack function inside of this prototype.
If I console log this before we add the prototype Well it's an empty object and remember every function
that we create gets this prototype property but only constructor function actually have used for this
prototype object now just to finalize our understanding.
What happens if I do console dot log elf or Peter dot prototype.
What do you think this will result in.
If I click Run I get undefined.
Why is that while.
Because Peter is not a function.
Peter is an object and only functions have access to the prototype by the way one of the biggest gotchas
with this is if we add something like let's say built and build is simply going to return house.
So if I do Peter build now see that Peter has built a house.
But let's say that instead let's do this let's say we have a function called building and this function
is going to return house and let's say in here will be this dot.
Name
builds a house.
Make sure we add them together here.
And then finally we can just call building here.
What do you think happens if I build now if I click Run I get undefined and yes I'm being repetitive
here but hopefully by showing you these things a few times you really internalize them.
Why do we get undefined.
Well this is one of the biggest gotchas when it comes to object oriented programming.
When we create objects like this functions inside of methods is well a function inside of a function.
That means this is not assigned to the object itself but actually to the window object.
And we've seen this before so there's a few ways to solve that.
You can do bind this or remove the call the function and just return the function.
So now we can call it Peter build a house or even easier if we go back
we can just have a reference such as self equals this
and this can be turned into self so that if I run this oh and we have to make sure that we return this
we get Peter built a house.
Awesome
right.
Let's remove this and go back to what we had before.
Let's remove that as well.
Now that we have things clean.
What is the problem with this.
Are we there.
Are we at object oriented programming Nirvana.
Do we reach our end goal.
Well not really.
The problem with this code is prototype is kind of weird.
It's a little hard to understand isn't it.
And I mean it looks kind of ugly.
This code is now very understandable unless you really know your prototype of inheritance and how javascript
works which most people don't.
This can get very confusing very fast.
As a matter of fact there's not that many people that like this style of coding.
It's kind of confusing although older code bases you might see a lot of this especially if they're doing
object oriented programming.
But the problem is that object oriented programming is all about the idea of classes.
This code well there's no classes in here.
There is this weird thing where we have to make sure to remember to have a capital letter which is why
object dot create was added to the language in order to avoid this headache and just use pure prototype
all inheritance but the thing is this style of coding this idea of this and the new keyword is very
much object oriented programming is part especially when it comes to languages like Java.
If we wanted to get closer to object oriented programming well object does create is technically less
object oriented than something like this.
But like I said before this is not pretty.
So how can we improve this and we're going to improve this a lot in the next part.
We're finally going to get to the end to our goal of adding classes and doing true or as close as we
can with javascript object oriented programming let's find out what that looks like in the next video.